## University Policies

UBC provides resources to support student learning and to maintain healthy lifestyles but recognizes that sometimes crises arise and so there are additional resources to access including those for survivors of sexual violence.
UBC values respect for the person and ideas of all members of the academic community.
Harassment and discrimination are not tolerated nor is suppression of academic freedom.
UBC provides appropriate accommodation for students with disabilities and for religious observances.
UBC values academic honesty and students are expected to acknowledge the ideas generated by others and to uphold the highest academic standards in all of their actions.

Details of the policies and how to access support are available on the [UBC Senate website](Details of the policies and how to access support are available on the UBC Senate website.).

## Final Examinations 

The examination period for {{ TERM }} is {{ EXAM_PERIOD }}.
Except in the case of examination clashes and hardships (three or more formal examinations scheduled within a 24-hour period) or unforeseen events, students will be permitted to apply for out-of-time final examinations only if they are representing the University, the province, or the country in a competition or performance; serving in the Canadian military; observing a religious rite; working to support themselves or their family; or caring for a family member.
Unforeseen events include (but may not be limited to) the following: ill health or other personal challenges that arise during a term and changes in the requirements of an ongoing job.
Further information on Academic Concession can be found under Policies and Regulation in the [UBC Academic Calendar](https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/campus-wide-policies-and-regulations/academic-concession).

## Copyright Disclaimer

Diagrams and figures included in lecture presentations adhere to [Copyright Guidelines for UBC Faculty, Staff and Students](https://copyright.ubc.ca/requirements/copyright-guidelines/) and [UBC Fair Dealing Requirements for Faculty and Staff](https://copyright.ubc.ca/requirements/fair-dealing/).
Some of these figures and images are subject to copyright and will not be posted to Canvas.
All material uploaded to Canvas that contain diagrams and figures are used with permission of the publisher; are in the public domain; are licensed by Creative Commons; meet the permitted terms of use of UBC’s library license agreements for electronic items; and/or adhere to the UBC Fair Dealing Requirements for Faculty and Staff.
Access to the Canvas course site is limited to students currently registered in this course. 
Under no circumstance are students permitted to provide any other person with means to access this material. 
Anyone violating these restrictions may be subject to legal action.
Permission to electronically record any course materials must be granted by the instructor.
Distribution of this material to a third party is forbidden.

## Grievances and Complaints Procedures

A student who has a complaint related to this course should attempt to resolve the matter with the instructor first.
Students may also talk to other members of the teaching team (TAs, course coordinators, co-instructors) if they do not feel, for whatever reason, that they can directly approach their own instructor.
<!-- - If the complaint is not resolved to the student's satisfaction, the student should e-mail the Associate Head, {{ ASSOCIATE_HEAD }} or the Department Head. -->

## Academic Integrity

The academic enterprise is founded on honesty, civility, and integrity.
As members of this enterprise, all students are expected to know, understand, and follow the codes of conduct regarding academic integrity.
At the most basic level, this means submitting only original work done by you and acknowledging all sources of information or ideas and attributing them to others as required.
This also means you should not cheat, copy, or mislead others about what is your work.
Violations of academic integrity (i.e., misconduct) lead to the breakdown of the academic enterprise, and therefore serious consequences arise and harsh sanctions are imposed.
For example, incidences of plagiarism or cheating may result in a mark of zero on the assignment or exam and more serious consequences may apply if the matter is referred to the President’s Advisory Committee on Student Discipline.
Careful records are kept in order to monitor and prevent recurrences.

A more detailed description of academic integrity, including the University’s policies and procedures, may be found on the [Academic Integrity Website](https://academicintegrity.ubc.ca/about-academic-integrity/)

If you have any questions about how academic integrity applies to this course, please consult with your professor.

## Grading Practices

Faculties, departments, and schools reserve the right to scale grades in order to maintain equity among sections and conformity to University, faculty, department, or school norms. 
Students should therefore note that an unofficial grade given by an instructor might be changed by the faculty, department, or school.
[Grades](https://vancouver.calendar.ubc.ca/campus-wide-policies-and-regulations/grading-practices/introduction) are not official until they appear on a student's academic record.
If you have any questions about how academic integrity applies to this course, please consult with your professor.

## Disability Assistance

The Centre for Accessibility (CFA) ensures educational equity for students with disabilities, injuries or illness.
If you are disabled, have an injury or illness and require academic accommodations to meet the course objectives, [visit the CFA website](https://students.ubc.ca/about-student-services/centre-for-accessibility) for more information or contact the CFA directly at: [info.accessibility@ubc.ca](mailto:info.accessibility@ubc.ca).

## Equity, Human Rights, Discrimination and Harassment

UBC is a place where every student, staff and faculty member should be able to study and work in an environment that is free from human rights based discrimination and harassment.
If you require assistance related to an issue of equity, discrimination or harassment, please contact the [Equity Office](https://equity.ubc.ca) or email ([info@equity.ubc.ca](mailto:info@equity.ubc.ca)), your administrative head of unit, and/or your unit’s equity representative.   

## Health & Wellbeing

At UBC health services to students are provided by [Health and Wellbeing](https://students.ubc.ca/health).
Nurses, physicians and counsellors provide health care and counselling related to physical health, emotional/mental health and sexual/reproductive health concerns.
As well, health promotion, education and research activities are provided to the campus community.
If you require assistance with your health, please contact [Health and Wellbeing](https://students.ubc.ca/health) in person (UBC Life Building, Room 1400), or by phone (604.822.8450) for more information or to book an appointment.

## Sexual Violence Prevention and Response Office (SVPRO)

[SVPRO](https://svpro.ubc.ca) is a safe and confidential place for UBC students, staff and faculty who have experienced sexual violence regardless of when or where it took place.
Just want to talk? We are here to listen and help you explore your options. We can help you find a safe place to stay, explain your reporting options (UBC or police), accompany you to the hospital, or support you with academic accommodations.
You have the right to choose what happens next, and we believe you.
We support your decision, whatever you decide.
Visit [svpro.ubc.ca](https://svpro.ubc.ca), email them at [svpro.vancouver@ubc.ca](mailto:svpro.vancouver@ubc.ca), or call us at 604.822.1588.

## UBC Investigations Office (IO)

The UBC Investigations Office (IO) responds to formal reports of sexual misconduct and discrimination involving UBC students, faculty, and staff through investigations and alternative resolution processes.
If you or someone you know has experienced sexual assault or some other form of sexual misconduct by a UBC community member and you want the UBC Investigations Office (IO) at UBC to investigate, please contact the IO.
Investigations are conducted in a trauma informed, confidential and respectful manner in accordance with the principles of procedural fairness.
You can report your experience directly to the IO via a [secure webform here](https://ubc.ca1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_8oFgTWeLsNiO9F4) or by calling 604.827.2060 or online by visiting [io.ubc.ca](https://io.ubc.ca).

## SAFEWALK

You do not have to walk alone on campus. 
If you feel unsafe walking alone on campus after dark, or if you are not too sure how to get somewhere on campus, then Safewalk can accompany you to your destination.

Call Safewalk at 604.822.5355 during their opening hours from 8:00 PM – 2:00 AM.

For more information, [visit our website](https://www.ams.ubc.ca/support-services/student-services/safewalk/) or download the [UBC SAFE app](https://security.ubc.ca/home/safety-prevention-resources/ubc-safe-app/) on iOS and Android devices.